# Predictive-Cyber-Threat-Analytics

### Cyber Supply Chain (CSC) security is critical for reliable service delivery and ensure overall business continuity of Smart CPS. CSC systems by its inherently is complex and vulnerabilities within CSC system environment can cascade from a source node to a number of target nodes of the overall cyber physical system (CPS). A recent NCSC report highlights a list of CSC attacks by exploiting vulnerabilities that exist within the systems [1]. Several organizations outsource part of their business and data to the third-party service providers that could lead any potential threat. There are several examples for successful CSC attacks. For instance, Dragonfly, a Cyber Espionage group, is well known for targeting CSC organization [2,3]. The Saudi Aram co power station attack halted its operation due to a massive cyber attack [1]. There are existing works that consider CSC threats and risks but a lack of focus on threat intelligence properties for the overall cyber security improvement. Further, it is also essential to predict the cyber attack trends so that the organization can take the timely decision for its countermeasure. Predictive analytics not only provide an understanding of the TTPs, motives and intents of the threat actors but also assist situational awareness of current supply system vulnerabilities. 

### It aims to improve the cyber security of CSC by specifically focusing on integrating Cyber Threat Intelligence (CTI) and Machine Learning (ML) techniques IEEE Access on machine learning, Issue Date:June.2021to predicate cyber attack patterns on CSC systems and recommend suitable controls to tackle the attacks. The novelty of our work is threefold:

 * Firstly, we consider Cyber Threat Intelligence(CTI) for systematic gathering and analysis of information about the threat actor and cyber-attack by using various concepts such as threat actor skill, motivation, IOC, TTP and incidents. The reason for considering CTI is that it provides evidence-based knowledge relating to the known attacks. This information is further used to discover unknown attacks so that threats can be well understood and mitigated. CTI provides intelligence information with the aim of preventing attacks as well as shorten time to discover new attacks.

 * Secondly, we applied ML techniques and classification algorithms and mapped with the CTI properties to predict the attacks. We use several classification algorithms such as Logistic Regression (LG), Support Vector Machine (SVM), Random Forest (RF) and Decision Tree (DT) for this purpose. We follow CTI properties such as Indicator of Compromise (IOC) and Tactics, Techniques and Procedure (TTP) for the attack predication.

 * Finally, we consider widely used cyber attack dataset to predict the potential attacks [6]. The predication focuses on determining threats relating to Advance Persistent Threat (APT), command and control and industrial espionage which are relevant for CSC [7] [8] [9]. The result shows the integration of CTI and ML techniques can effectively be used to predict cyber attacks and identification of CSC systems vulnerabilities. Furthermore, our prediction reveals a total accuracy of 85% for the TPR and FPR. The results also indicate that LG and SVM produced the highest accuracy in terms of threat predication.
